Walk them back.
So we've gone through the first step but let's look at the second step.
Now with CSSA CSSA is called render blocking because in order to construct the rendered tree remember
this one over here and print something onto the screen.
We're waiting for the CIA says Dom to complete and combine it with the Dom to create the render tree
so CSSA is rendered blocking.
So with that in mind it makes sense that we want to make them as lightweight as possible so that a user
sees something as soon as possible and with the CSSA over here there just a few things that we need
to consider.
We want to only load whatever is needed.
We want to possibly incorporate above the fold loading.
We want to add media attributes and we want to get less specificity to improve performance.
Let's get into that one by one to show you what I mean.
We have our super awesome example that we used last time as well.
This time we've added the success optimizing techniques that we've just discussed.
The first one load only what is needed is pretty self-explanatory right.
CSSA is really really easy to just keep adding stuff to we can add more styles maybe copy some styles
that we saw online and paste them on here and we can make this file hundreds if not thousands of lines
long.
But by only loading what is actually needed and preventing the file from being bloated you avoid more
download time.
Right.
If we go back to our example.
Lucky for us we only have one style sheet that is so small that is says it's zero by train now takes
one milli second to download.
That's pretty nice.
So the first one is nice and easy.
Just load while you need.
Now the second point above the fold loading.
And this is pretty interesting.
I'm a user right now and I refresh the page I'm only interested in what I can see if this web page with
scrollable maybe we had images underneath or it was a one of those one page web size that I can keep
scrolling down on.
There's more and more information.
I technically don't need to see that until I start scrolling.
So the priority is to see whatever is above the fold the main page if we're able to optimize this and
just load while we need above the fold there will be pretty nice wouldn't it.
Maybe we only need the CSX that we're using right now above the fault.
Let me show you how to do that.
So let's say we have this style 3 and this style three is a CSSA file but we don't really need it for
the main page of our website so in here let's just create a H-2 class and this H2 class will call it.
This is important.
And within here we'll say we'll just load up a piece of Texas says important above the fold content
and we can just copy this again and say that we also have another H2 tag and this one will just say
it's secondary.
And this one's not important it is below the fault content.
You want see this until after page loads.
And let's say that important and secondary each have their own style glasses you can see that in style
dots CSSA I have the important class that has background yellow and in-style three 3.
SS I have secondary with background pink.
Now these style files are pretty small but you can imagine how they would work if our app was bigger.
But right now if I load this onto my Web page and I refresh.
All right well I'm not getting the Stahl's because well I need to have the files and I also misspelled
important.
Silly me.
Let's refresh.
All right so the first CSSA is working the second one isn't because we need to import it.
So again let's add a new style file three if I refresh your.
All right everything is being loaded.
But as you can see here in our network tab we get a nice little hint.
If you look at the red line over here it says load is nine milli seconds.
So that means our Web site was loaded in nine milliseconds pretty fast.
But both stylesheets were loaded before we saw anything.
But if this was like this and the pink background is unnecessary because as a user I'm only going to
see this first content.
Let's see if we can move the style three to be loaded after the load line.
The red line with a little javascript this is actually quite simple and you can even grab this script
on line.
Don't stress too much about it.
If you don't fully get it but again using a script AG We can just incorporate this fairly easily
Well some really have a cost load style sheet and that will accept a parameter of source
and we'll say if document Daut create style sheet and we just want to make sure that this property or
this method actually exists.
If that's the case because some browsers have this we can just say create a style sheet and give it
the path.
Otherwise
we can just do this ourself.
We can say style sheet equals document that create element and we're going to create a link tag
and this link tag will have an ATF that is he calls to the path the source will also give it a type
of text.
CSX again just like we have it up here
style sheet type.
And then finally we can just say document dot get element by ID or at least two by tag name and we'll
just grab the head tag and because it returns an array we have to get the array elements so this grabs
our head tag in the Ishmail and to it we're simply going to append child the style sheet and we just
create and we don't need the Cotes
perfect.
So that's going to create the style sheet.
So we don't need to actually import it here anymore.
Style 3.
And now with our style sheet loaded or a function that loads our style sheet we can now incorporate
it into something called Window data on load.
So that is when it loads.
Remember that red line when window does load.
We can simply
run the function and we'll just console lot here just to see that it's working.
Will Say window done.
And with here we can just do our loads style sheet with the file path that we're going to give it which
is going to be Rupes which is going to be style three dot see assess.
All right let's save this.
See if we've made any mistakes and want to refresh and I see you get an error.
And create aliment I cannot spell.
Let's fix that.
Create a law meant save Let's try that again and to get element by tag name because this should be get
elements by tag name.
I do this all the time.
There you go let's refresh her rate we see that below the fold content and we're not getting any air
but we're not getting the pink background here.
And we also actually need a style sheet.
Roll which will be a style sheet.
So now we go and refresh Ceara the bottom if I refresh again.
We see that index and style are being loaded before the window onload event so loading up the web page
and end style three is being loaded afterwards.
And if I scroll down there you'll there's my pink background from my style three dots.
SS Let's close this and we'll just do a hair reload and we see that blank because the style is being
loaded after the web page.
So after it's being displayed then the styles get loaded versus the yellow that is always there.
From the very
very cool.
So we just did above the fold loading.
Now there are two more things and there are a lot quicker to demonstrate media attributes.
Well you've done this before we showed you how to do media attributes with
media in your CSSA files but you can actually do them in your e-mail files as well.
So let's say for example you had some media that you only need for certain screen sizes wall in that
case we can let's just copy all of this and we'll say media which by the way this is default if you
don't put anything in a link tag assumed that media equals to all.
But in our case let's say that our style to Dotsie SS This one will have a media on the screen.
I don't use the media here.
There you go.
So it's only screen.
So for any screen and we'll say and men with is going to be 500 pixels.
So if I do this and save and will see that style too has a H-1 color of red I go back here and I refresh
will see that the one that says Hi his
red must change is back to how fast let's refresh and if I scroll the same closer we see that it's green
now and you also notice at the bottom that we have all three style sheets.
Very cool.
And then the final thing is less specificity.
And this is a very minor one but might want to just keep in mind that is if we go to style 2 over here
we have a good and a bad.
Now why would this be the case.
Because remember browsers are computers that need to do work.
First of all the more information we sent over the wire the more bytes that is.
This is way less characters than this one.
But also when it arrives in the browser the browser needs to calculate the styling to create that CSSA
dom right.
So it needs to do a little bit more work if the specificity is really really complicated versus if it's
just like this.
So again a small one but critical to understanding how rendering works in the browser.
Ok I lied.
There's one last thing I want to point out when we say load only what is needed.
Some of you might be thinking there's a trick we can do.
Perhaps instead of loading an external style sheet we can just create an internal one one that is a
style tag
and this style tag within here we can just put all our CSSA.
For example if I wanted the H-1 to have a certain style let's say font style of 30 pixels and actually
just to make it something clearer we can just say that we'll just say that color is
Bulley all save and refresh and we see over here that we're able to change a style but we're not loading
any new style sheets.
So theoretically we can just put all the styles in here and in here just take all that out and put them
within this block.
And that's really good.
We're avoiding that one actually request.
However you might notice an issue here.
If we had multiple Ishimaru pages.
Well we'll have to copy and paste this into other pages.
So this is only working on one.
Tim Page and this is actually a good thing to do if you're doing about the full loading with an internal
C-s us just for the above the fold.
C Ss that's a good trick to do.
Another option is to have something called in line C Ss and N line C Ss.
Again is a style attribute this time and we can say that this style has a background Stu caller of yellow.
If I save and refresh again nothing new.
We have our background yellow Bob with no new style sheets.
And once again this is pretty great.
And the browser is able to read this really really fast and apply the style quite fast.
But again the limitation of this is the fact that we have to do it for every single element and we can't
really have classes or IDs for it.
But strategically if you use these you are able to make your web site faster depending on your situation.
All right that's it for now to review.
We've learned that with CSSA we want to only load whatever's needed.
We want to consider.
Above the fold loading.
We want to work with media attributes to make sure we render specific to screen sizes and we also might
want to consider less specificity when it comes to our CSSA.
All right that's enough for now.
I'll see in the next video where we talk about javascript Buh-Bye.